Cockpit 219 (#323)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2020-05-13-cockpit-219.md

such as when using smart card or Kerberos authentication, or ssh/Dashboard login with an SSH public key.

Cockpit respects the "`sudo`" configuration for your account. For example: When `NOPASSWD` is in your configuration, you don't have to provide a password in Cockpit to gain administrative access. And if "`sudo`" is configured for two factor authentication, Cockpit will ask twice.

Cockpit only supports "sudo" to elevate the access level. If your
custom Cockpit page relies on Polkit to grant access, you now need to
use the superuser option for the relevant channels. For example,
using the UDisks2 D-Bus API now has to look like this:

`conn = cockpit.dbus("org.freedesktop.UDisks2", { superuser: "try" })`

We plan to bring Polkit support back shortly.

<iframe width="960" height="720" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-JDMe015m-k?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Try it out

Cockpit 219 is available now:

 * [For your Linux system](https://cockpit-project.org/running.html)
 * [Source Tarball](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/releases/tag/219)
 * [Fedora 31](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2020-XYZ)

>  * [Fedora 32](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2020-XYZ)

Reviewer: Release is done, so please plug in the bodhi URLs. Otherwise LGTM now, thanks!

---
title: Cockpit 219
author: kkoukiou
date: 2020-05-13
tags: cockpit linux
slug: cockpit-219
category: release

> summary: Cockpit with XYZ

Reviewer: how about "logs filtering and privilege changing improvements"?

comments: 'true'
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/). We release regularly. Here are the release notes from version 219.

> ### Logs: Improved journal logs filtering

Reviewer: I think "Improved filtering" suffices, the prefix already makes it clear that it's about the Logs.

> It's now possible to filter logs by providing keywords in a text filter which may include the unit of interest, time constraints, priority and [journal fields].

Reviewer: Let's split up the long sentence: "... text filter. This may include ...". Also, I suppose the `[journal fields]` is still a TODO?

There is also the possibility to pause/resume the logs streaming.
Lastly journal logs which appear in other pages are now linked to the the full journal in the Logs page.

![Journal Logs Filtering](/images/journal-logs-filtering.png)

> ![Journal Logs Per Page Link](/images/journal-logs-per-page-link.png)

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this second screenshot should convey. It probably misses some context, or at least an explanation?

> ### Administative access improvements

Reviewer: How about "Gain or drop administrative access in a running  Cockpit session"?

Cockpit now allows more control over your access level. You can gain
administrative access in a running session, and Cockpit will remember

> that for the next session.

Reviewer: I'd like to mention this, as that's the real killer feature:

... This finally allows the user to do administrative actions without a password on the login page, such as when using smart card or Kerberos authentication, or ssh/Dashboard login with an SSH public key.

Cockpit respects the "sudo" configuration for your account. For
example, when NOPASSWD is in your configuration, you don't have to
provide a password in Cockpit to gain administrative access, and if
"sudo" is configured for two factor authentication, Cockpit will ask
twice.

Cockpit only supports "sudo" to elevate the access level. If your
custom Cockpit page relies on Polkit to grant access, you now need to
use the superuser option for the relevant channels. For example,
using the UDisks2 D-Bus API now has to look like this:

`conn = cockpit.dbus("org.freedesktop.UDisks2", { superuser: "try" })`

We plan to bring Polkit support back shortly.

> Here is a [demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-JDMe015m-k) of the new functionality.

Reviewer: Please embed the video, like we do in other blogs:

    <iframe width="960" height="720" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-JDMe015m-k?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---
title: Cockpit 219
author: kkoukiou
date: 2020-05-13
tags: cockpit linux
slug: cockpit-219
category: release
summary: Logs filtering and privilege changing improvements
comments: 'true'
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/). We release regularly. Here are the release notes from version 219.

### Logs: Improved filtering

It's now possible to filter logs by providing keywords in a text filter. This may include the unit of interest, time constraints, priority and
[arbitary journal fields](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.journal-fields.html).
There is also the possibility to pause/resume the logs streaming.
Lastly journal logs which appear in other pages are now linked to the the full journal in the Logs page.

![Journal Logs Filtering](/images/journal-logs-filtering.png)

### Gain or drop administrative access in a running Cockpit session

Cockpit now allows more control over your access level. You can gain
administrative access in a running session, and Cockpit will remember

> that for the next session.

Reviewer: That's not quite correct -- Cockpit will also remember that you *dropped* administrative access.

> Cockpit now allows more control over your access level. You can gain
> administrative access in a running session, and Cockpit will remember
> that for the next session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cockpit now allows more control over your access level. You can gain and drop administrative access in a running session, and Cockpit will remember the state for the next session.
```

> that for the next session.

Reviewer: I added my own suggestion below.
